We're gonna take a little bit of a side
quest because this is great and wonderful,
but the more you can document your design
system, and how you use it, right?
And what the appropriate thing and
this is a shared thing too, yeah,
there's rules and
if you look at Twilio paste,
a lot of these design systems will be,
this is when you use this thing.
And that is definitely meant for
the designers as the audience, right?
My job is to then take those segments and
make them a website thing, but again,
it becomes a collaboration piece, right?
Because for most of these things,
it could be the designers deciding what
the rules and when you should use this
kind of button versus that kind of button.
But when we saw Microsoft's design system,
Atlassian design system,
Twilio designs, all the designs
as they're all in storybook.
So it becomes again, that collaboration
between development and design.
And there's some really,
really powerful features that
also help you as a developer.
So we will look at those real quick, and
then we'll kinda go and look at that call
out component when we have a full picture
of all the things that we can do.
So, predominantly, most of our work
today has been in a stories.tsx file,
and that's pretty cool.
But what happens, I keep going
to badge cuz it starts with a b,
let's close that,
there we go, much better.
All right, so let's go here and
say, button.mdx,
and I'm just gonna write some mark down.
Hello world!
I am a button, sure.
I'm just gonna say that, so
mark down, nothing special.
Let's go back into my story book,
cool, over here,
I have a button and here's my markdown.
Okay, great, that's fine.
We're all nodding but
it's not that impressive.
What we wanna do is actually then make
this the documentation for our button.
And so storybook has these
things called docs blocks.
I'm just gonna say blocks from this
point forward because there's no
way I'm gonna repeatedly say docs blocks,
and not stumble over my words.
mdx is basically a variant,
overloaded word,
pun unintended,
marked down syntax over there,
that also supports a certain
amount of JavaScript/JSX.
I mentioned this at the beginning of
the workshop, but I'll mention it now
cuz it's important, which is MDX you
can write JSX also known as React.
You can do this even if you are Svelte,
Vue, whatever, right?
It's not important, but
it is React, right?
You don't need to have React installed
as a dependency as a version eight,
if you have seven yet and you do.
But version eight, they bundle it
in there, but it is React syntax.
So if you try to then just write Svelte or
Vue you will be sad but
it's pretty easy to deal with.
I will mention just real quick, the MDX
file got picked up because that is in
the settings and that is by default unless
you went out of your way to change it.
You're like, I don't know what this is and
removed it then it won't work, but
if you didn't change that,
it will totally work as well, and
that's how it got picked up in that case.
So at the very simple level, I can do
something like this inside of markdown,
which is I could say import
button from button, and
then anywhere I want in here,
I can do button, I am a button.
And if we go back to that page,
look, we have a button in
our markdown file, and
you can do all sorts of crazy stuff.
My website where we have
the core stuff is spelt but
directly I use a Svelte variant of this.
Again, and it's kinda cool to be
able to embed components in there,
but then what becomes a lot more
powerful is there are a lot
of these components that
Storybook gives you for free.
So let's pull in some of them.
We're gonna pull in import,
and we're gonna say Meta,
which is just like, what is this?
We'll start with just that one,
what is this?
Storybook, I think it's just blocks, yeah.
And we'll pull in
the import ButtonStories,
you know how in this stories,
I'll just look at it real quick.
We exported as default the meta
about this set of stories and
everything you need to know,
which is the title of it,
what the args are,
what component we're describing, right?
That is the default export
from button.stories.
So we'll pull that in from,
Button.stories as well,
and now we'll watch as,
I'll show you real quick just for
compare and contrast.
They're kinda not connected
to each other right now.
What we can do instead of saying will say,
Meta of ButtonStories,
which is just saying
like this document is
describing the button.
Which did move it over here, and so
now it is docs along with all of my
button stories in this case, right?
And so this is where you might, again,
nobody wants to watch me write
a bunch of prose describing a button.
But theoretically,
let's look at an example,
this is kind of like it in practice,
from Twilio's, right?
Here's the guidelines,
here's about the account switcher.
Let's go look at their button just for
context, right?
And we'll do some of this momentarily.
But it's the guidelines, when to use a
button, a button versus an anchor link, so
on and so forth.
So we've got that and there's just
some other little helpful ones
in here as well, so
we could do stuff like Title.
Where we'll say Title is most of that
is just some helpful styling as well.
But where this becomes a little bit
more interesting is we could say,
let's go with the primary, is not
necessarily the one you called primary,
it is the first story that is
exported cuz ESM keeps the order.
So if you called it default or
whatever, it is whatever the first
story that you had in that export of the
stories is considered the primary story.
So now what I can do is I can say primary,
and I could write a bunch of prose,
like (Here is notes on
how to use a button),
put it in parentheses.
Cool, so we've got that here as well.
And it's a JSX, so
you gonna have the closing tag.
Wrong tab, there we go.
And now you can see there is my
primary story in here as well,
along with the prose on
how to like use a button.
And this is just one of the stories,
there's also stories plural.
And if you just like the default
components, and you're like,
I don't need this, then ignore it.
But there are some powerful pieces around,
so we can just use stories.
And we can say, show me all the stories
here, I gotta put that slash,
and that's like here's primary, here's
secondary, so they're all in one page.
So you can see all of the buttons in this
case, and you can write your own code and
all of those things as well.
The other cool thing is, on just a usage
level and documentation, it shows you
the syntax for this component like,
you want a button that looks like this.
And these are simple, but
you can see a world where on
a more complicated case, right?
We can see all the pieces in here.
And there's a whole bunch
of other ones in here for
various different uses you
show a particular story.
The other one that I think is
useful in a lot of cases is this
controls which are those
controls that we saw earlier.
So I can say, let's put the, will say,
Other variations here,
and we'll put controls.
And that meta is what's hooking it all up,
if you don't have this it's could be like
I don't know what you want controls up and
what you wanna story off,
so, it gets confused.
But now, you can say, okay, cool,
these are all the props that it takes,
this is what type it takes,
here's the default value.
And a lot of that it acquiesced
from the typescript types.
And what's even kinda cooler is,
we didn't write our own types anymore.
You know what I mean?
We use that class variance authority to
generate our types, which then generated
annotations on our controls, which then
also showed us how to use this component.
Which I think is super useful as well,
and again, you change anything here and
changes that primary story,
like the way we have up here.
So if you like the default layout, you
can use that if you find yourself wanting
to have different opinions and
you can use the docs blocks in here.
You can also write your
own presentational things.
You can do all JavaScript works in here,
any component you have works.
If you have strong opinions on how
you wanna communicate and standardize
on communicating your design system,
all of that is fair game in here, right?
And that's obviously
of course going to be,
unique to what you're doing,
and it's in there as well.
There are one or
two special use cases I do wanna show you,
you can choose to use them,
you can choose to not use them.
These are some of the ones I
think are super helpful, and
they are kind of somewhat
agnostic to any given component.
So I can put him in tokens,
I'm gonna put them in the top level
because I don't know what else to do.
So I can do colors.mdx, and
this is kinda a useful one.
That is definitely I think, helpful,
yeah, in that collaboration with design.
So we can do something like,
will do import, let's do,
we'll grab Meta, and
we'll say ColorPalette,
you can guess where we're going here, and
ColorItem from storybook/blocks.
Great, great, great, and
we'll say in this case we're not actually
tying it to a given set of stories.
So we'll just say
the Meta title is Colors.
Awesome, and now we can take
that ColorPalette component and
you could write this yourself
if you wanted to, right?
This is just one they gave you for free.
If you need something special,
it's just JSX, you can totally write it.
I don't even know how to
spell palette anymore.
You'd think I'd got good at
this at some point, but no.
Cool, and then what we'll do is
we could say something like,
we'll start with something basic,
we'll say ColorItem, and
we'll say title is Blue.
We'll switch this out in a second.
Our brand because every brand is blue.
Sweet, and we'll say that the colors are,
I'll just start with the,
Xcode, if we flip over.
All right, what did I waste time?
All right, when am I gonna close
myself closing tags nobody knows.
Can I spell ColorPalette right?
ColorPalette has one l and two ts,
for those keeping track at home.
The only bad part about MDX is the
IntelliSense is not nearly as good as if
you're writing a JavaScript file.
And you can see how much
I rely on IntelliSense,
by the fact that I don't
know how to spell at all.
And so here's a color swatch and
that's cool or whatever, but
let's take this to its natural conclusion.
We can import those colors
from ./tokens/colors,
and here we can just do map over that
where we've entries called name, value,
I'm not sure that totally works.
Yes, name and value,
what's angry about value for?
Colors, ColourItem, it's title, it's name,
title, colors is, what you angry about?
Probably not closing this.
So I imported that JSON file with
the object of colors and this is why in my
code base you saw that I had an object
of colors because I am very lazy and
I don't want to implement this by hand.
So the workflow is we've got those CSS
variables and Figma, you can export that
as either CSS variables or the Tailwind
theme is just a JavaScript object.
So even if you don't use Tailwind you use
that, and that is all our key values.
So now we have our ColorPalette by name,
and if I wanted to I could include
additional things about when to use what
color, I'm just mapping over an object.
It's just a regular object you can
kinda generate a ColorPalette.
I will save this as an exercise to the
reader because we're not using them too
much today.
There is one for our typeset which is
useful for typography, and one for an icon
set which is incredibly useful, cuz then
you can just have a page of the icons.
They're basically just pretty ways to
display these things, if you'd hate this
ColorPalette, then you don't have to use
Storybooks, there's just helpful blocks.
You can write your own ColorPalette,
and you can use that instead, and
you can feel productive for
the day cuz you did that.
But these are available to
kind of begin to build out and
document that design system and
communicate, which is both helpful for
designers communicating with each other.
And then also for you just to be able on
a second screen stare at all the icons so
you don't necessarily need to
remember what icons are there,
what their names are as well.
And so those are all there,
I've got those in the course website.
Those are document on how to do those,
because it's not the most pertinent
thing for what we're doing right now,
I will kind of leave that as kind of
an extension if you're interested in this
is something that speaks to you as well